HARI SREENIVASAN: Good evening.
I'm Hari Sreenivasan.
Gwen Ifill and Judy Woodruff are
away.
On the "NewsHour" tonight: As
candidates storm
Indiana ahead of tomorrow's
primary, both
parties' front-runners aim to
finally shake
their rivals with enough Hoosier
State delegates
to clinch the nomination.
Also ahead: It is the fifth
anniversary of
Osama bin Laden's death -- what
the raid of
the al-Qaida leader and
mastermind of the
9/11 attacks means for the U.S.
today.
Plus: how farmer and
philanthropist Howard
Buffett is improving agriculture
both here
and in Africa's most devastated
areas.
HOWARD BUFFETT, Philanthropist:
Well, you
got to have a goal.
(LAUGHTER)
HOWARD BUFFETT: But we're not
going to end
world hunger, but, you know, I
think every
step we can take in that
direction is something
positive.
HARI SREENIVASAN: All that and
more on tonight's
"PBS NewsHour."
(BREAK)
HARI SREENIVASAN: It's the eve
of the presidential
primaries in the Hoosier State;
57 delegates
are at stake for Republicans.
And Ted Cruz
is trying to wrestle whatever he
can away
from his rival Donald Trump.
John Yang has our report.
MAN: You are the problem,
politician. You
are the problem.
JOHN YANG: Ted Cruz went for
broke today,
trying to pull off a crucial
primary win in
Indiana. This afternoon, he
faced off with
backers of Republican
front-runner Donald
Trump.
SEN. TED CRUZ (R-TX),
Presidential Candidate:
I think anyone that wants to be
president
owes it to the people of this
state to come
in front of you and ask for your
support.
And I'm running to be everyone's
president,
those who vote for me and those
who don't.
MAN: We don't want you.
SEN. TED CRUZ: Well, you're
entitled to your
view, sir. And I will respect
it.
(CROSSTALK)
MAN: Do the math.
MAN: You asked Kasich to drop
out. It is your
turn.
SEN. TED CRUZ: Well...
MAN: Take your own words.
JOHN YANG: But the words drop
out don't seem
to be in Cruz's vocabulary, not
yet anyway.
SEN. TED CRUZ: I am in for the
distance as
long. As we have a viable path
to victory,
I am competing to the end.
And the reason is simple.
Listen, this isn't
about me. It isn't about Donald
Trump. It
isn't about any of the
candidates. This is
about our country and our
future.
JOHN YANG: An Associated Press
analysis has
Cruz trailing Trump in the race
for the nomination
by more than 400 delegates. Cruz
won't win
the delegates he needs to win
for a first-ballot
nomination, so he is trying to
keep Trump
from locking up the nomination
before the
convention in Cleveland.
Trump spent the day making his
final pitch
in the Indianapolis area.
DONALD TRUMP (R), Presidential
Candidate:
Honestly, if we win Indiana,
it's over. It's
over.
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
DONALD TRUMP: And if we don't, I
will win
it next week, or the week after,
or the week
after. It's fine, because they
have no path,
whereas I have a very easy path.
I mean, we
will win it on the first ballot.
JOHN YANG: Farther south, in
Evansville, Democrat
Bernie Sanders was whipping up
support, not
just for the Indiana primary,
but also for
his effort to keep his campaign
alive until
the convention.
SEN. BERNIE SANDERS (VT-I),
Presidential Candidate:
The way the system works is, you
have establishment
candidates who win virtually all
of the superdelegates.
It makes it hard for insurgent
candidacies
like ours to win. But you know
what? We're
going to fight for every last
vote. And we're
going to...
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
JOHN YANG: Hillary Clinton has a
commanding
lead in delegates and seemed to
be looking
beyond the convention. Today,
she campaigned
in Kentucky.
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (D),
Presidential Candidate:
Here in Eastern Kentucky, and
obviously West
Virginia, and Southeast Ohio,
Appalachia coal
has taken a huge hit. Talk about
a ripple
effect. It is just decimating
communities.
JOHN YANG: Late today, she paid
a visit to
West Virginia.
For the "PBS NewsHour," I'm John
Yang.
HARI SREENIVASAN: We will take a
deeper look
at the presidential campaign
with Politics
Monday right after the news
summary.
In the day's other news: The
U.S. said progress
is being made toward restoring a
truce in
Syria. That came as the Syrian
military extended
its own unilateral cease-fire in
some areas,
including Damascus. But violence
continues
to rage farther north in Aleppo.
U.S. Secretary of State John
Kerry was in
Geneva today meeting with the
U.N.'s envoy
for Syria. Kerry expressed
optimism, but stopped
short of detailing truce
proposals.
JOHN KERRY, U.S. Secretary of
State: We are
working over these next hours
intensely in
order to try to restore the
cessation of hostilities
and at the same time to raise
the level of
accountability that will
accompany the day-to-day
process of implementing this
cease-fire.
HARI SREENIVASAN: To that end,
Kerry, who
later spoke by phone with his
counterpart
in Moscow, said the U.S. and
Russia agreed
to station personnel around the
clock in Geneva
to better monitor a new truce.
An Islamic State car bomb killed
at least
18 people and wounded dozens
more in Southwestern
Baghdad today. Workers used
shovels and water
hoses to clear debris following
the blast.
Many of those killed were Shiite
pilgrims
commemorating the death of a
revered eighth
century imam.
Puerto Rico has defaulted on a
$422 million
bond payment that was due today.
Its officials
warned, the U.S. territory's
debt crisis could
soon worsen without the help of
Congress.
In Washington, White House
spokesman Josh
Earnest said he hopes this
creates a -- quote
-- "new sense of urgency for
lawmakers" to
restore Puerto Rico's debt
restructuring authority. The
island's default
-- "new sense of urgency for
lawmakers" to
restore Puerto Rico's debt
restructuring authority. The
island's default
will likely prompt lawsuits from
creditors,
and could foreshadow more
problems to come
when a much larger payment is
due July 1.
Nearly all of Detroit's 97
public schools
were forced to close today after
teachers
staged their latest sick-out.
They protested
the possibility that some of
them won't get
paid through the summer if the
debt-stricken
school district doesn't receive
more funding
from the state. Today's closure
impacted some
46,000 students.
Cancer researchers today issued
a warning
to New England residents who get
their drinking
water from private wells. A
study from the
National Institutes of Health
found a correlation
between bladder cancer and
arsenic levels
in Maine, New Hampshire and
Vermont wells.
Bladder cancer incidence in the
region is
20 percent higher than the rest
of the country.
The risk is even greater if
wells were dug
before 1960, when arsenic-based
pesticides
were common.
The person behind the digital
currency Bitcoin
may have finally been
identified, after years
of speculation. Craig Wright, an
Australian
entrepreneur and computer
scientist, told
several news agencies today he
invented the
currency back in 2009. Bitcoins
allow consumers
to purchase goods or services
and exchange
money anonymously without
involving banks
or other third parties.
In an interview with the BBC,
Wright said
he came forward with reluctance.
CRAIG WRIGHT, Entrepreneur: I
didn't decide.
I had people decide this matter
for me. And
they are making life difficult,
not for me,
but my friends, my family, my
staff. I don't
want money. I don't want fame. I
don't want
adoration. I just want to be
left alone.
HARI SREENIVASAN: But several
publications
have questioned Wright's claim.
Earlier today,
I spoke to Andy Greenberg, a
senior writer
from "Wired" via Google
Hangouts. He said
today's revelation has raised
even more questions.
ANDY GREENBERG, "Wired": This
has only gotten
hairier as a story. It was
unclear at first
whether this was a hoax or
whether we had
found the creator of Bitcoin.
And I think
we have only gone further down
that rabbit
hole.
HARI SREENIVASAN: For our full
interview with
Andy Greenberg, visit our Web
site, PBS.org/NewsHour.
On Wall Street today, stocks
bounced back
after last week's losses. The
Dow Jones industrial
average gained 117 points to
close at 17891.
The Nasdaq rose 42 points. And
the S&P 500
added 16.
The first U.S. cruise liner in
nearly 40 years
docked in Cuba this morning.
Passengers waved
to locals as the 700-passenger
ship operated
by Carnival Cruise subsidiary
Fathom Travel
pulled into Havana. The arrival
follows President
Obama's restoration of ties with
Cuba in late
2014.
For the record, Fathom Travel is
a "NewsHour"
underwriter.
And some history was made in
English soccer
today. Leicester City has won
the Barclays
Premier League after overcoming
5,000-to-1
odds. The Foxes finished near
the bottom of
the league last year, but lost
only three
times this season, and clinched
the title
today, when second-place
Tottenham played
to a tie. It's Leicester City's
first championship
in the club's 132-year history.
Still to come on the "NewsHour":
Politics
Monday, a look ahead to
Indiana's make-or-break
election for Ted Cruz; then, CIA
director
Leon Panetta on the fight
against al-Qaida
five years after Osama bin
Laden's death;
how Warren Buffett's son is
helping Africa
feed itself; and much more.
All eyes are on Indiana in the
race for the
White House.
We examine the heightened
significance of
the Hoosier State in 2016 with
our Politics
Monday team, Tamara Keith of NPR
and Amy Walter
of The Cook Political Report.
So, one of the things that we
saw Ted Cruz
say in that earlier piece was a
viable path
to the candidacy, right, that
he's in this
until that ends. Does that end
tomorrow night
for him?
AMY WALTER, The Cook Political
Report: Hari,
I have been arguing that it's
actually already
over.
I think that the race
effectively ended last
week with the primaries up and
down the Northeast
Corridor, and Donald Trump
putting up such
big numbers. He's ahead in the
polls right
now in Indiana. He's ahead in
California.
It's going to be, I think, all
but impossible
for him to be stopped before we
get to the
convention.
And even then, I think he's
going to get the
1,237 votes he needs before the
convention.
I just think the momentum is
strongly behind
him. Cruz never caught on. The
stop Trump
movement, it always had an
antagonist, which
was Donald Trump, but it never
had a protagonist.
And I think that was its biggest
challenge.
But there was never a challenge
to voters,
here's what you can support. It
was always,
here is what you can be against.
Voters want to vote -- support
someone. And
they also like supporting a
winner. And right
now, Donald Trump looks like a
winner.
HARI SREENIVASAN: So, what about
those stop
Trump folks? Are they in denial?
Is this an
inevitability?
TAMARA KEITH, National Public
Radio: They're
still working it.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Right.
TAMARA KEITH: And Ted Cruz is
campaigning
extremely hard. His campaign,
between his
various surrogates, now his vice
presidential
pick, Carly Fiorina, they had 10
campaign
stops in a single day. They are
working very
hard in Indiana.
But it seems like, if Donald
Trump wins in
Indiana, after this disarmament
pact was announced
with Governor John Kasich, and,
really, Ted
Cruz has had Donald Trump to
himself mostly,
if he can't win, Donald Trump's
going to be
able to make a very strong
argument: What
are you doing if you can't win
in Indiana?
And if Donald Trump is able to
win all of
the delegates in Indiana, he'd
only need -- he
would be 85 percent of the way
to clinching.
That's quite a long way toward
clinching.
HARI SREENIVASAN: This alliance
between Kasich
and Cruz, it sort of was on, on
a Tuesday,
and then off by a Saturday. Is
it kind of
still on? It seems that Kasich
wasn't campaigning
in Indiana today.
AMY WALTER: No, he wasn't, but
the stop Trump
movement has spent almost as
much money on
television -- these are these
outside super
PACs -- in Indiana as they did
in Wisconsin,
where obviously Ted Cruz was
successful.
But, as I said, I think that
voters are desperately
looking for someone to vote for.
So, this
idea of just voting against
Donald Trump really
not catching fire. Plus, the one
who is getting
the momentum beyond what you're
seeing in
the polling data is the
endorsements, Donald
Trump picking up endorsements
from royalty
in Indiana, everybody from Lou
Holtz, the
former Notre Dame coach, to
Bobby Knight,
the former Indiana coach.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Sports are --
college sports
are huge.
AMY WALTER: Sports, big deal.
The ring, the
basketball ring, very big in
Indiana.
(LAUGHTER)
HARI SREENIVASAN: Right.
So, let's shift gears to the
Democratic side.
TAMARA KEITH: Yes.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Bernie Sanders
still fighting
it out. Is this as much of a
race now in Indiana?
TAMARA KEITH: Bernie Sanders --
in Indiana,
Bernie Sanders is
demographically favored.
The state looks good for him in
that way.
Polling shows him ahead --
trailing somewhat,
shows Clinton ahead.
But if -- talking to the
campaigns, you get
the feeling that they don't
really trust the
polling and that they think
Bernie could -- Bernie
Sanders could win in Indiana.
And the challenge there, though,
is he could
wake up Wednesday morning and be
further behind
in the chase for pledged
delegates than he
was when he started. And what I
mean is that
he at this point needs to win
every remaining
contest by about 25 points --
that's a lot
-- if he wants to catch up to
Hillary Clinton
in pledged delegates.
That's why he held a press
conference yesterday
and he started pitching the idea
very publicly
of flipping superdelegates. He
proposed having
superdelegates support the will
of the voters
in their state. If that were to
happen -- we
did the calculations -- and
Sanders would
still be behind by about 500
delegates, combining
superdelegates and pledged
delegates.
AMY WALTER: And the argument
also doesn't
really work very well.
It's not very consistent with
the Bernie Sanders
message, which has been, I'm one
of you, I'm
the people, the people are
standing up.
Well, right now, the people have
been voting
for Hillary Clinton. He's losing
the popular
vote. He's only got about 41
percent of the
popular vote, compared to her,
somewhere around
56 percent. The pledged delegate
count, he
is behind.
So to argue that the way I'm
going to win
is to get the insiders and the
establishment
to put me over the top, that
sort of rings
hollow for the guy who is
running to break
up the establishment.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Tamara Keith,
meanwhile,
we have seen Hillary Clinton
almost pivot
toward a general election
posture.
TAMARA KEITH: That's absolutely
happening.
She's campaigning in Appalachia
today and
tomorrow, a driving tour of
these states.
And what she's doing, it is a
combination.
It is -- she's definitely in
these states,
campaigning for these states,
but she's using
messaging and talking about
issues that she
thinks will carry her into the
general election.
The other thing is, she is also
fighting with
Donald Trump, and there was the
woman card
comment that Donald Trump made.
He's made
it repeatedly, but he also made
it on primary
night last Tuesday. Her campaign
announced
today that they raised $2.4
million in three
days on the woman card; 40
percent of those
were new donors.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Wow. So, she
has got kind
of two flanks that she's
battling on.
AMY WALTER: Yes, although I
would argue she's
spending really more time
focusing on the
general election, and basically
saying to
Bernie Sanders this weekend, I
hired general
election campaign managers in
the big swing
states. That's where my focus
is. Yes, I'm
still going to campaign for the
primary, but
the general election really has
started.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Amy Walter,
Tamara Keith,
thanks so much.
TAMARA KEITH: You're welcome.
AMY WALTER: Thank you.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Five years
ago,U.S. special
operations forces launched one
of the most
daring raids in history. They
invaded a U.S.
ally to kill the most wanted man
on the planet.
I recorded this conversation
last week with
"NewsHour" special correspondent
Nick Schifrin,
who visited the scene shortly
after the battle.
Nick Schifrin was the first
Western reporter
to arrive in Abbottabad,
Pakistan, that day,
and delivered exclusive,
extraordinary video,
images from inside the compound
just hours
after bin Laden was killed.
At the time, Nick was ABC News
correspondent
in the region. And now he's a
"NewsHour" special
correspondent.
And he joins me in the studio.
So, what did we see in that
video?
NICK SCHIFRIN: Hari, we saw how
the world's
most wanted man lived and how he
died.
In terms of how he lived, we see
a bedroom,
a large bed, bigger than any bed
anywhere
else in the house. We saw the
medications
he was on, very simple
medications available
at the local pharmacy. We saw a
pantry where
there was a week's worth of food
stored up.
We saw so many signs of
children.
There was a red wagon outside in
the backyard.
There were 12 kids living there.
Half of them
were bin Laden's. We also saw a
satellite
dish outside. That was a one-way
communication
device used to watch TV on that
dish, of course,
never used it to communicate
with the outside
world.
And, of course, we saw how he
died, the pools
of blood in his bedroom and the
room of Khaled,
his son, and the mess that Navy
SEALs left
behind. They ransacked the room
where all
the computers were. And all the
files from
those computers became what
intelligence officials
referred to as the Abbottabad
files.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Here we are
five years later.
The news is almost -- almost on
a daily basis
mentions ISIS. It doesn't
mention al-Qaida
so much. Is there -- explain the
shift.
NICK SCHIFRIN: Yes.
I think, as one longtime
al-Qaida puts it,
al-Qaida has kind of like become
Microsoft.
It's still got a decent share of
the market,
but it's not preeminent. It's
not really seen
as cutting edge. And it doesn't
really appeal
to the younger generation.
And that is because, of course
what we call
core al-Qaida, the al-Qaida
leadership as
it was defined in 9/11 and the
years after,
has been decimated. And that
started before
bin Laden was killed, about two
or three years
before, probably 2009. The CIA
moved a lot
of assets and intelligence and
technology
into the region, and drones
started picking
off these leaders.
HARI SREENIVASAN: What about the
al-Qaida
affiliates that have spread in
other parts
of the world and still seem
pretty active?
I mean, are these essentially
franchise operations?
NICK SCHIFRIN: That's exactly
what it is.
And there was a reason that they
were created
even before bin Laden was
killed, because
core al-Qaida was on the run. So
you had to
have these affiliates. And they
still have
some success. And that's really
still the
threat of al-Qaida today, the
most prominent
one, al-Qaida in the Arabian
Peninsula, based
in Yemen.
That's the group that has come
closest to
attacking the West. You had the
underwear
bomber, if you remember, that
print cartridge
bomb that didn't go off. And,
also, one of
the members of the team that
attacked Charlie
Hebdo in Paris probably got
training from
al-Qaida.
But what they have succeeded at
recently is
one of bin Laden's other core
tenants, not
only attacking the West, but
really ingratiating
the local population, again,
something ISIS
doesn't do.
And what AQAP has done in Yemen
recently is
worked with local tribal chiefs.
And that
has allowed them to actually
gain ground in
Yemen. So, right now, they are
actually doing
quite well in Yemen.
There's three more affiliates.
The most prominent
one, other than AQAP, is
al-Nusra in Syria,
again, also working with the
local population,
working with other groups that
fight Assad,
no longer only focused on the
West.
AQIM in Northwest Africa has had
some headline-grabbing
attacks recently, although not
quite clear
how organized they are as a
group anymore.
And, lastly, Al-Shabaab, totally
locally focused
on the Somali government and
Kenyans who have
come into Somalia.
So, to use a sports metaphor,
al-Qaida still
fields a team. They're still on
the field,
but not a lot of long passes
anymore, not
a lot of touchdowns, trying to
gain two, three
yards at a time. And the coach,
Zawahri, isn't
particularly well-liked by the
players, can't
communicate that well. The bench
is very weak,
but still a threat.
HARI SREENIVASAN: All right,
Nick Schifrin,
thanks so much.
NICK SCHIFRIN: Thanks a lot,
Hari.
HARI SREENIVASAN: The raid on
bin Laden's
compound was watched closely by
President
Obama and his national security
advisers,
among them, Leon Panetta, who
was CIA director
at the time. He watched the raid
unfold in
real time from the agency's
Langley headquarters.
And he joins me now.
So, Secretary, what was that day
like for
you? It was a culmination of a
lot of work
that went into it for years.
LEON PANETTA, Former U.S.
Secretary of Defense:
It was.
It was an awful lot of work that
stretched
back 10 years, almost to 9/11.
And an awful
lot of people deserve tremendous
credit for
that, the CIA, the intelligence
agencies,
those involved with the special
forces operation.
There were just an awful lot of
people who
did various pieces of the
intelligence effort
and the military effort that
resulted in the
raid itself. But it was -- it
was something
that -- as an individual
responsible for kind
of overseeing the operation from
the CIA,
it was a remarkable operation.
And a lot of tribute goes to the
bravery and
courage of those who conducted
it.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Where is
al-Qaida now, meaning,
is the infrastructure, the
network that Osama
bin Laden exploited, does that
still exist?
LEON PANETTA: We have done a
very good job
at decimating al-Qaida's
leadership, particularly
in Pakistan.
And I think, obviously, the bin
Laden operation
was kind of the primary effort
to go after
the spiritual leader of
al-Qaida. And so I
think, generally, a good job at
decimating
their leadership.
At the same time, al-Qaida's
probably metastasized,
as we have seen with other
terrorist operations
in the Middle East. There are
variations of
al-Qaida that are still
operating very much
in the Middle East and North
Africa.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Have we
succeeded then as
a policy to degrade their
network to almost
zero, or, as you mentioned, they
have sort
of sprung out into different
branch operations
in other parts of the world?
LEON PANETTA: The reality is
that terrorism
remains a threat.
It's metastasized into ISIS.
It's metastasized
into Boko Haram and Al-Shabaab.
And so it
continues to be very much a
threat that the
United States and other
countries in the world
have to focus on. This is a
long-term effort.
We have had some success, there
is no question
about it. We have gone after
their leadership.
We have done well to prevent
another 9/11-type
attack, but there remains an
awful lot more
work to be done in order to
protect this country.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Five years on,
have we fully
understood the complicity of
Pakistan in all
this?
LEON PANETTA: It's -- it's been
a challenging
period to develop the
relationship with Pakistan.
Obviously, Pakistan was helpful
in being able
to work with us in many areas.
Certainly,
in the intelligence area, we
worked together.
On military efforts, we worked
together. But,
at the same time, Pakistan was
difficult because
they had a close relationship to
various terrorist
networks, and you were never
quite sure just
exactly where their loyalties
would lie.
And it was for that reason, very
frankly,
that when we were looking at the
bin Laden
operation, which we would have
preferred,
frankly, to have worked with
Pakistan. But
there are so many questions
raised about whether
or not we could trust them that
the president
decided that we should do it
alone.
HARI SREENIVASAN: When you look
at the landscape
from your vantage point, it
seems like the
terrorists learned more from us
about how
we hunted down bin Laden, how we
went after
organizations, their leadership
infrastructure.
And now we're in an era where
terror groups
operate almost singularly, in
cells. And it's
hard to find a single person
that runs anything
that we can go after.
LEON PANETTA: Well, you're
right, in the sense
that, just as we have learned
how to confront
terrorist groups and try to
track them and
go after their planning for
possible attacks
in this country, they have
learned as well.
They have learned, you know, a
lot of our
technology, our process, how we
operate. And
the result is that they operate
much more
in a lone wolf fashion, in the
sense that,
you know, they do outreach, they
have individuals
that are well-placed, but they
minimize the
contacts. They minimize the
planning. And
that makes them even a greater
threat.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Secretary Leon
Panetta,
thanks so much for joining us.
LEON PANETTA: Thank you very
much.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Stay with us.
Coming up on the "NewsHour":
Katie Couric's
exclusive interview with the
refugees Pope
Francis brought back from
Greece. And does
Malia Obama's decision to take a
gap year
before college mean the trend is
going mainstream?
But first: Africa has vast
agricultural potential,
yet, over the past half-century,
its per capita
food production has declined
drastically.
In fact, it's gone from being a
net food exporter
to now importing much of its
food.
The reasons are complex, but
they include
rapid population growth,
political strife
and weak institutions.
As part of our ongoing
collaboration with
"The Atlantic," we profile an
American farmer
and philanthropist who has made
it his mission
to reverse the trend in Africa.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Howard Buffett is
a serious
farmer. He is a conservationist,
intent on
finding better, more sustainable
ways to grow
food.
And he is a teacher, sharing
what he knows
with farmers in Africa, giving
them tools
to better feed their people.
HOWARD BUFFETT, Philanthropist:
This is all
going to take nutrients out of
the soil.
JUDY WOODRUFF: He is also a man
with a lot
of money to spend on making
those things happen.
It's been described that one of
your goals
or your main goal is ending
world hunger.
HOWARD BUFFETT: Well, you got to
have a goal.
(LAUGHTER)
HOWARD BUFFETT: But we're not
going to end
world hunger, but, you know, I
think every
step we can take in that
direction is something
positive.
Just slam it.
JUDY WOODRUFF: You just slam it?
HOWARD BUFFETT: Hard. There. You
got it.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, now, what do
you call this
machine again?
HOWARD BUFFETT: 82-25-R John
Deere. It's a
tractor.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Howard Buffett
loves his toys.
HOWARD BUFFETT: My mom always
told me I didn't
have enough Tonka toys when I
grew up, so
I think I have them now.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Mom would be the
late Susan
Buffett, who died in 2004. And
dad, you guessed
it, is Warren Buffett, one of
the world's
richest men.
You grew up in Nebraska. What
was it like?
I mean, what do you remember
about being in
this family?
HOWARD BUFFETT: I think people
think it was
different because of my dad.
And the truth is, when I was
growing up, my
dad wasn't well-known at all. We
grew up in
a very normal environment, went
to public
schools, walked down to the bus
stop and went
to school.
JUDY WOODRUFF: At the same time,
your dad
-- because of your dad's
success, you were
leading a pretty comfortable
upbringing.
HOWARD BUFFETT: Oh, we didn't
have to worry
about anything. And we were
always told that,
if we wanted to go to college,
it would be
paid for, if we wanted to go to
medical school,
it would be paid for, which is
kind of funny,
because none of the three of us
actually finished
college. We all started, but we
never quite
made it all the way through.
I just had a hard time adjusting
in college.
So I went out and I bought a
bulldozer, and
I started building terraces on
farm ground
and taking out trees and
building basements.
And it was something I always
wanted to do,
so I went out and did it.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And what did that
lead to next?
HOWARD BUFFETT: Well,
ultimately, it led to
the fact that I'm sitting here,
because I
had some experiences with
neighbors who are
farmers and who let me get
involved in some
of the fieldwork and some of the
things that
they did.
And I really fell in love with
farming.
We have a total of 4,500 acres.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Buffet's Illinois
farms can
produce more than 8,000 tons of
corn and soybeans
in a year. But they're also
living laboratories,
part of research funded by the
Howard G. Buffett
Foundation, to improve
agriculture both here
and overseas.
HOWARD BUFFETT: So, what we have
in this field,
the first thing I want to point
out is all
the cornstalks from last year.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Right.
HOWARD BUFFETT: We do no tillage
in this field,
zero.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Why not?
HOWARD BUFFETT: Because it helps
build soil
health. You save fuel, because
you only make
one pass over this field,
instead of maybe
three or four.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, but you just
let the stalks
rot; is that basically it?
HOWARD BUFFETT: Yes, exactly.
So, if you pull this out, you
see the earthworm
right here, and the earthworm
right there?
JUDY WOODRUFF: Oh, my gosh, yes,
right there.
HOWARD BUFFETT: OK?
So, any gardener will tell you
this. Worms
are the best thing you can have.
But if I
take that shovel and I go to dig
up a shovel
worth of soil across the road,
where they
have tilled it year after year,
finding these
earthworms, it's pretty
unlikely.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The Howard G.
Buffett foundation
plans to give away an estimated
$4 billion
over the next 30 years, most of
the money
coming from shares of Berkshire
Hathaway,
the company founded by the
senior Mr. Buffett.
HOWARD BUFFETT: My dad gave us
this great
opportunity with the foundation,
and it was
natural for me to look at
smallholder farmers
and see, well, how do we improve
agriculture,
and how do we make it so the
farmers feed
their families better?
JUDY WOODRUFF: Howard Buffett
has immersed
himself on the African continent
as few other
philanthropists have.
HOWARD BUFFETT: My dad has said,
go out and
don't try to hit the ball out of
the park
every time, but don't be scared
to swing.
And swing means you're going to
miss, and
it means that you're going to
fail some of
the times.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The foundation
has invested
heavily in the strife-ridden
Democratic Republic
of Congo.
HOWARD BUFFETT: We're building
three hydro
plants in Eastern Congo. And we
started the
first one in 2012-2013, in the
middle of very
intense conflict, with the M23
and the Congolese
government.
And we had the site. When we
started, it was
shelled by RPGs and everything
else.
CALESTOUS JUMA, Harvard
University: The Democratic
Republic of the Congo is an area
where not
many donors are interested in
operating. And
so he's taking very high risks
in going to
those areas.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Harvard Professor
Calestous
Juma says Buffett's willingness
to take those
risks has brought him respect
across the continent.
CALESTOUS JUMA: He's visited all
the African
countries. He's looked at what
happens, what's
happening on the ground. He is a
farmer himself.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Most other
foundations wouldn't
dare go into a country where
there's that
level of conflict, where that --
where you
could see fighting break out.
HOWARD BUFFETT: To me, those are
the people
who need the most help.
I mean, you're looking at the
most devastated
populations. You're looking at
devastated
infrastructure, no governance,
no rule of
law. If you want to talk about
helping the
most impoverished populations,
you're talking
about going to where conflict
is. There's
no doubt about that.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Yet one of
Buffett's most ambitious
projects is in one of Africa's
currently most
peaceful nations, Rwanda, where
the foundation
will spend half-a-billion
dollars, principally
to train young Rwandan farmers.
HOWARD BUFFETT: You would have
young adults
graduating with four-year
degrees in agricultural
processing and plant science,
and things that
today they don't really have
access to.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And why is that
important?
Why does it matter?
HOWARD BUFFETT: Well, if you
want to advance
agriculture, I mean, look at
what we did in
this country. The university
system is what
built our agriculture into a
powerhouse originally.
CALESTOUS JUMA: Historically,
African agriculture
was considered to be something
that peasants
did, therefore, didn't require
training.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Back in Illinois,
we see yet
another aspect of the
farmer-philanthropist,
Auxiliary Deputy Sheriff Howard
Buffett. For
the past four years, he's
volunteered for
a job it's safe to say few other
foundation
heads have held.
HOWARD BUFFETT: The one thing
that I have
gotten out of being an auxiliary
sheriff,
deputy sheriff, is seeing a
whole underside
of this country that I had no
idea existed.
I mean, the poverty, the
domestic abuse, the
substance abuse, the attitude of
people about
a lot of things, I mean, I have
been -- it's
hard to surprise me, but I have
been surprised
at some of the things I have
experienced and
seen as a deputy sheriff.
TOM SCHNEIDER, Macon County,
Illinois, Sheriff:
Howard Buffett is probably more
prepared than
a lot of other younger deputies
coming on.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Macon County
Sheriff Tom Schneider
sings his praises.
TOM SCHNEIDER: The amount of
hours that he
has put in with deputies, it is
-- basically
surpasses everybody else. He
goes through
training on a daily basis, and
he's always
educating himself to see how he
can perform
at a higher level.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, here you are,
somebody
who's seen the world, who's seen
a lot, and
yet this is something that only
in the last
few years you have been able to
witness up
close.
HOWARD BUFFETT: I have witnessed
in a way
that a civilian, a normal
citizen wouldn't
be able to witness it.
You see it every single day. And
you're making
decisions about how to deal with
it, which
makes it very real.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, my question
is, then
how do you decide, where's your
greater passion?
Because you clearly have that
great passion
to make changes in a place like
Rwanda, but
you also -- you also clearly
have a passion
here.
HOWARD BUFFETT: Your first
obligation is always
at home. I mean, you can't ever
walk away
from the responsibilities that
you have at
home. But I also think we have a
huge responsibility
internationally, because we are
a leader.
And we need to maintain that
leadership.
And so, for me, I don't see that
-- you can't
separate them. They're both
critical. But
you cannot -- you can never walk
away from
your responsibilities at home.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Does it bother
you that you're
known to so many people as
Warren Buffett's
son?
HOWARD BUFFETT: Never bothered
me ever, never,
no. I don't think about it that
way. I feel
like I'm doing what I can do.
And the truth is, I'm able to do
so many things
because of my dad that I
couldn't do otherwise.
He's been an amazing father.
CALESTOUS JUMA: Howard Buffett
is someone
who has brought his own personal
experience
and integrity to probably one of
the world's
largest and critical challenges,
which is
being able to generate food
security for a
billion people.
And I think that takes
incredible courage
and commitment to be able to do
something
of that kind.
TOM SCHNEIDER: Here, within the
last week,
he was out with an officer that
had did an
arrest, and the individual was
cold. He offered
up his coat to that individual,
so that they
would be warm. The individual
said, "Boo-fay."
And he goes, "Yes, some people
say that -- well,
or Buffett, like Warren
Buffett."
And he goes, "Yes, Yes, I have
heard of him."
And the individual sits back and
goes, "Well,
you kind of look like him."
"Yes, I have heard that."
Never once did they even realize
that it was
Howard Buffett, his son.
(LAUGHTER)
HARI SREENIVASAN: We want to
note that BNSF
Railway, an underwriter of this
broadcast,
is owned by Warren Buffett's
Berkshire Hathaway.
That connection had no impact on
the reporting
of this story.
Two weeks ago, Pope Francis
visited refugees
on the Greek island of Lesbos, a
way station
Two weeks ago, Pope Francis
visited refugees
on the Greek island of Lesbos, a
way station
on the migrant trail to Europe.
Though he was there but a few
hours, the pontiff
made headlines the world over
when he left
the island with three Syrian
families, 12
people in all, bound for Rome.
Late last week, Yahoo News
global anchor Katie
Couric sat down with four of the
refugees
at the Vatican.
Here is a brief portion of that
interview.
KATIE COURIC, Yahoo News: It
must be wonderful
to be safe, but it also must be
hard to leave
your country.
MD-UL /HASAN, Syrian Refugee:
Yes.
NOUR, Syrian refugee: Yes.
SUHILA, Syrian refugee (through
translator):
No doubt, God willing, we will
adapt to this
country, and, most importantly,
we will learn
Italian.
(LAUGHTER)
KATIE COURIC: Is it hard to
leave your home,
though?
SUHILA (through translator): We
try and forget
that moment.
KATIE COURIC: It must be nice
not to be frightened
every day.
NOUR: Yes, because, for a
moment, when were
in Turkey, I was afraid from the
sounds of
things. Every time the planes
passed, I was
very afraid for my son.
KATIE COURIC: If you had a
chance to see the
pope -- have you been able to
see him at all,
Pope Francis?
HASAN: We don't know, but -- we
hope -- we
hope that we could meet him
again.
KATIE COURIC: You met him when
you traveled
with him?
NOUR: Yes.
HASAN: Yes.
KATIE COURIC: And you met him in
Lesbos?
HASAN: Yes.
NOUR: Yes, just before...
KATIE COURIC: Just before you
got on the airplane?
NOUR: Yes.
KATIE COURIC: What did you think
of him?
NOUR: He's very kind man. He's a
real human
being.
For me, I appreciate him more
than any Islamic
leader or Islamic religious man
or more than
any Arabic leader, because
nothing has been
done by these men like him, by
the Arabic
leaders or by Muslim leaders.
KATIE COURIC: No one has done.
NOUR: No one has done the same
thing. Not
one has visited the camps. No
one has shown
the suffering people like him.
No one has
thought about us, although they
participate
with us the same religion, on
the same language.
KATIE COURIC: And, Ramy, what
did you think
about the pope?
RAMY, MD-UL /Syrian Refugee
(through translator):
His actions didn't have to do
with our skin
color and religion. And it has
proven that
human beings are brothers with
other human
beings.
KATIE COURIC: If you had a
chance to say something
to Pope Francis today, what
would you say?
RAMY (through translator): I
will thank him
from the bottom of my heart. And
I wish that
hope all Western and Arabic
countries do the
same.
KATIE COURIC: What about you,
Suhila? What
would you say to the pope?
SUHILA (through translator): I
will say to
him thank you. Because of him,
hope came back.
We have come back to life and
we're living
our lives for those that we lost
in Syria.
KATIE COURIC: And what about
you, Nour?
(LAUGHTER)
NOUR: I would like to say to him
also thank
you for giving me this
opportunity and for
giving us security, for giving a
better life
for my son, the new life for my
son, stable
life for my son. And I thank him
for all -- all
his prayers for the refugees.
And I thank
him for all the steps that he
has done for
the refugees.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Joining me now
is Katie
Couric.
Katie, this is almost a lottery
ticket that
the pope gave to these families.
How did it
come about? How were they
chosen?
KATIE COURIC: Well, you know,
the pope obviously
took this trip to Lesbos, Hari.
And then I think he claims --
gives credit
to a top adviser and also sort
of the divine
being for inspiring him to go
ahead and take
these three families with six
children in
total with him back to Rome.
And, obviously, for secular
reasons, they
had to make sure that their
papers were in
order, so they had to deal with
the Italian
and the Greek authorities to
ensure that everybody
had their documents in order and
that they
qualified for asylum. So, it was
really just
the luck of the draw that these
three families
did, in fact, qualify and the
pope said, please
come with us.
But they didn't realize until
they were getting
ready to board the plane, the
papal plane,
that in fact they were going
with the pope
back to Rome. So, they described
it as an
"Alice in Wonderland"
experience. And you
can only imagine how thrilled
they were to
leave Lesbos, where I think the
conditions
are quite difficult, and finally
get to Rome.
HARI SREENIVASAN: So, what was
the backstory
of these families? Were they
supporters of
either the rebels or Assad?
KATIE COURIC: You know, they
were caught in
the crossfire, the proverbial
crossfire.
The younger couple, Hasan and
Nour, were civil
engineers working outside. They
lived in a
suburb of Damascus and they were
working for
the government, but they were
not sympathetic
to the Assad regime. So they
were caught between
all these different groups that
are against
the Assad regime, anti-Assad
groups and ISIS
and all kinds of different
individuals.
And they have a 2-year-old son,
so, clearly,
they very felt very unsafe on a
daily basis.
And they were worried that
people, because
they worked for the government,
would think
they were sympathetic to Assad,
which they
were not at all.
Meanwhile, the other couple,
Suhila and Ramy,
he's a teacher and she's a
tailor. And they
lived in a city close to the
Iraqi border
that was surrounded by ISIS.
There was a lot
of hunger, people dying from
starvation, people
stranded there.
And, again, they were caught
between these
two different worlds, the pro
Assad forces
and the anti-Assad forces,
specifically ISIS.
So, they felt -- they feared for
their lives
and decided they should leave
with their children,
who are 18, 16 and 7.
Plus -- plus, I should mention,
Hari, that
both Hasan and the son, the
18-year-old son
of Suhila and Ramy, were being
drafted to
fight in the war. And that's
another reason
they wanted to leave the
country, because
I guess they thought that that
would lead
to certain death.
HARI SREENIVASAN: So, Katie, how
did these
families get to Lesbos to be
picked by the
pope?
KATIE COURIC: Well, Hari, first,
they had
to make it to Turkey.
And Hasan and Nour stayed in
Turkey for three
months just waiting to make the
treacherous
journey across the Aegean Sea to
Lesbos. And
they had to try on four
different occasions.
They were caught by the Turkish
authorities
twice. Once, they didn't want to
get in because
they thought it was too
dangerous.
You can only imagine making this
journey with
a 2-year-old child. But they
finally made
it on the fourth try. And then
the other couple,
Ramy and Suhila, they were able
to get into
a rubber boat, but the motor
stopped working
in the middle of the Aegean Sea.
They had
to wait for very a nerve-racking
hour-and-a-half,
until, finally, it started
working again.
And so you can only imagine just
how stressful
this is. One of the couples who
wasn't able
to join us, Hari, they have two
small children.
One of their children stopped
talking for
a period of time because that
child was so
traumatized. And another wakes
up in the middle
of the night.
So, this is really the human
cost of this
refugee crisis. And I think
hearing from these
families personally, I think
that brought
that home in a way that, you
know, is in a
way that we don't often hear.
So, I really was grateful that
we were able
to hear about their experiences
firsthand.
HARI SREENIVASAN: What are that
are plans
now? Are they going to stay in
Italy?
KATIE COURIC: They are going to
stay in Italy.
They're learning to speak
Italian. Their children
are in school or in day care.
They're hoping
they're going to find some kind
of employment.
But unemployment is 12 in Italy,
37 percent,
if you can believe it, for
younger people.
That's why they were hoping to
go to France
or Germany. But I think, because
they have
been so embraced, Catholic
Charities is caring
for them, they have given them a
place to
stay, they're so grateful for
their security,
I think they're going to try to
build a new
life in Italy and hopefully,
they say, return
to Syria one day, if they can.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Yahoo News
global anchor
Katie Couric, thanks so much for
joining us.
KATIE COURIC: Thanks, Hari.
HARI SREENIVASAN: As you have
likely heard
by now, Malia Obama has decided
to take a
so-called gap year before she
attends Harvard
University in 2017.
It's an idea that's taking hold
among more
students, often at elite
schools, but not
only those.
William Brangham looks at the
broader trend.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: It's estimated
that, last
year in the U.S., 30,000 to
40,000 students
tried out a gap year. And that's
a 20 percent
jump from the previous year.
So, what are they, why the
growing interest?
To help fill in the picture, I'm
joined from
Boston by Joe O'Shea. He's the
author of "Gap
Year: How Delaying College
Changes People
in Ways the World Needs." He
also directs
the Center for Undergraduate
Research and
Academic Engagement at Florida
State University.
So, Joe, welcome.
JOSEPH O'SHEA, Author, "Gap
Year: How Delaying
College Changes People in Ways
the World Needs":
Thank you.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: I think a lot
of our viewers
have this stereotype that a gap
year is for
rich kids to put on a backpack
and travel
around Europe and find
themselves. I know
that's not totally true, so,
tell us, what
is a gap year?
JOSEPH O'SHEA: Sure.
There are so many misconceptions
about what
a gap year is, and some people
think it's
just waiting around in your home
community,
maybe sitting on your parents'
couch, taking
a year off from school.
But we think of gap year as
something very
different, a very powerful
educational experience.
It's a structured, deliberate
and purposeful
experience, in which students
challenge themselves
outside their comfort zones.
Often it involves
traveling or working or
interning, sometimes
overseas, sometimes
domestically, but it's
designed as an experience that
accelerates
their personal growth and
prepares them for
college.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: So, could you
give me some
examples of actual gap year
activities that
kids are doing now?
JOSEPH O'SHEA: Sure.
So, City Year, for instance, one
in the U.S.
in which students -- or young
people work
in inner-city schools, is a
powerful one and
popular one. Many students go
overseas. An
organization Global Citizen
Year, for instance,
or Omprakash work with local
community-based
organizations in developing
communities around
the world.
And students will intern there.
Maybe they're
doing something with young
people or a community
role or public health kind of
work. But it
really runs the spectrum.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Is there any
research indicating
what impact a gap year has on a
student?
JOSEPH O'SHEA: Sure.
We have done some research both
in the American
Gap Association and in the
academic world.
And what's very clear to us is
that, when
students take these kind of
structured, deliberate
gap years, that their growth is
really accelerated
across a number of ways.
They become better thinkers,
better people
and better citizens. And what is
really interesting
is that they perform better when
they get
to college. They are more likely
to go to
college, retain, and graduate
and get higher
GPAs.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: So, I realize
that this
can vary, but there has got to
be a cost associated
with this. Do we know how much
-- what does
it cost to take a gap year?
JOSEPH O'SHEA: Sure.
It really ranges and depends on
what you do.
Gap years can cost as much as
$30,000 a year,
but they can also cost very
little. There
are some programs like
Omprakash, for instance,
which works directly with
nonprofit organizations
around the world. And some of
them are free
room and board for up to a year.
And what is interesting is now
we're seeing
gap year organizations provide
increasing
levels of scholarship to
students to support
low-income schools -- low-income
students
-- sorry -- and many
universities, like my
university, Florida State,
subsidizing gap
year experiences.
We are, for the first year,
dedicating $50,000
in scholarships to support
low-income students
in their gap year experiences.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: So, help me
understand that.
Why would a university, which I
understand
that they are increasingly
interested in this
-- why would colleges and
universities want
their students to do this?
JOSEPH O'SHEA: Well, we now know
very clearly
that this is a transformational
educational
experience.
So, from our side, we know we're
going to
get really good and motivated
and purposeful
students when they come back to
Florida State.
And many universities are
beginning to recognize
this and see it as a powerful
educational
intervention.
The students are going to retain
better, graduate
from the university. And we want
to spearhead
this and help signal to students
and their
families and other stakeholders
in the education
system that gap years are an
important part
of the educational ecosystem.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: So, I
understand that there
are scholarships available for
low-income
students, but isn't this still
mostly the
province of wealthier students?
JOSEPH O'SHEA: Unfortunately,
gap years still
are mostly done by students in
the middle
class and above.
And that's a real big problem
for America,
especially since we know how
beneficial gap
year education can be for
students to. And
to get that to scale, we're
going to need
institutions and the government
at the federal
and state level to begin to
recognize gap
years and to federally and --
subsidize those
experiences for students.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: All right, Joe
O'Shea, Florida
State University, thank you very
much.
JOSEPH O'SHEA: Thank you.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Finally
tonight, as part
of our Broken Justice series, we
have a "NewsHour"
essay.
Paton Blough opens up about his
bipolar disorder
and frequent encounters with law
enforcement.
PATON BLOUGH, Founder, Rehinge:
I have two
labels I will carry the rest of
my life, bipolar
and convicted felon. They're not
mutually
exclusive.
I have been arrested six
different times,
all the while in a delusional,
paranoid state
of mind caused by my illness.
What you know
about society and how people
typically behave
doesn't apply to me. I enter a
department
store, and it feels right to
immediately take
off my shoes.
I'm convinced the government is
plotting to
control me, playing carefully
selected songs
on the radio to persuade me into
making a
certain decision, so I change
the station
just to spite them. I throw
three fingers
up at a public security camera
and tell President
Obama to read between the lines.
No, the rules of society don't
apply to me,
not when I'm having one of my
episodes.
I just raise my hand like this.
My episodes, which are rare, can
happen at
any time and take many forms,
from creating
a piece of art, to aggressively
accusing UPS
employees of being government
workers smuggling
weapons through their delivery
routes.
I'm able to show you these
pictures because
my wife has documented these
episodes, so
that we can learn more about
myself and ultimately
help others learn.
WOMAN: My gosh, this is a mess.
You created
a studio up here, baby. You look
like a true
artist.
PATON BLOUGH: You see, I'm not
alone.
More than half of all prison and
jail inmates
have a mental health issue. You
can imagine
the kind of reaction someone
like me might
have when delusions trigger an
incident in
which a police officer wants to
engage with
me or, worse, arrest me.
Three of my six arrests went
relatively well,
with police getting me into
custody safely.
The other three were extremely
violent, because,
in my head, I was fighting for
my life.
I was Tased in the back of the
police car
in our hospital parking lot with
leg irons
and handcuffs on. And one of my
charges that
night were destruction of county
property,
because I broke the leg irons.
Thankfully, around six years
ago, my recovery
killed into high gear. I was
asked to share
my experiences with officers as
part of something
called crisis intervention
training. In my
experience, most officers want
to help, but
often simply lack the training
to know what
to do in these tough situations.
One time, I was arrested by an
officer who
I believed naturally possess
many of the things
we train. He slowed down and
didn't force
the issue when I accused him of
being an undercover
agent. He waited for my brother
to come from
across town to bring my meds.
When I accused him of giving me
a poisoned
bottle of water so I could take
my pills,
he immediately offered to take a
sip to prove
it was fine. There is no doubt
we need more
officers like this today.
I came up with a training sheet
which quickly
describes for the police how to
deal with
someone like myself. Let the
person think
they're in control. Slow down
and stay calm.
One thing I always tell them is
to imagine
the person they're dealing
they're dealing
with is their brother, mother or
good friend.
The biggest shame of my life has
been my criminal
record, but now I get to take
those experiences
and help my community.
HARI SREENIVASAN: On the
"NewsHour" online:
In East Jerusalem, where
tensions between
Arabs and Israelis can be high,
there's at
least one space where children
can leave their
anxieties at the door: on the
basketball court.
PeacePlayers International
unites children
from all backgrounds while they
learn the
lessons of teamwork and
competition. Read
more about this organization
that bridges
cultural divides on our home
page.
All that and more is on our Web
site, PBS.org/NewsHour.
And that's the "NewsHour" for
tonight.
On Tuesday, we hear from parents
whose children
fled home to fight for ISIS.
I'm Hari Sreenivasan.
Join us online and again here
tomorrow evening.
For all of us at the "PBS
NewsHour," thank
you, and good night.